-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
                                     kmMail
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

DESCRIPTION

  kmMail is a web-based mail reader, written in PHP and based on the core
functionality of Keftamail (http://www.keftamail.com/).  It focses on
speed, ease of use, and MIME compliance.  kmMail is not a fully featured
client, but a framework for adding into existing functionality.  However,
kmMail is complete enough that it can be used standalone with no problem.


REQUIREMENTS

 * PHP 4.0 or later, compiled with IMAP support.
 * A compatible web server.  See the compatibility section below.  Apache 
for UNIX-ish systems will work best.
 * Secure/SSL connection.  While this is not a specific "you must have 
this or the software will not work" requirement, it is ESSENTIAL to use 
kmMail over a SSL connection.  kmMail uses HTTP authentication, which 
means the password is transmitted (though with slight obfusication) EVERY 
TIME a page is loaded.  You owe it to your users to use SSL.
 * An IMAP/POP3 server.  kmMail will work out of the box with UWash IMAPd.  
Cyrus and Courier will work, but you must tweak the folder settings.  I 
haven't found a POP3 server so far that does not work with kmMail.
 * An understanding of the aforementioned concepts "PHP", "IMAP", "UNIX", 
and "SSL".  If you do not know if you have PHP installed (or how to 
install it), do not know the location of the IMAP server, etc, etc...  
Please ask your system administrator (or better yet, ask her to install it 
for all users on the system).


SERVER COMPATIBILITY

|--------------------------------------------|
| Server Name               | UNIX | Windows |
|---------------------------|------|---------|
| Apache                    | Y    | Y       |
| Microsoft IIS(1)          | N/A  | N       |
| Zeus (CGI)                | Y(2) | ?       |
| Zeus (ISAPI)              | ?    | ?       |
| Zeus (FastCGI)            | ?    | ?       |
| iPlanet                   | ?    | ?       |
|--------------------------------------------|

* (1) Microsoft IIS does not handle HTTP authentication correctly.
* (2) See http://support.zeus.com/products/v3/php.html#auth for 
information on how to turn on HTTP authentication passthru with Zeus.

Cells marked with an "?" are unknown.  If you have or have not gotten 
kmMail to work on those combinations, please let me know!


INSTALLATION

  1. Unpack the tarball and move the files somewhere in your document root.
  2. Make sure .inc files are parsed by PHP.  This is not absolutely
necessary to get kmMail running, rather it prevents .inc code files from
being read from the web browser (most importantly, include/settings.inc).
  3. Edit include/settings.inc.  This file is decently documented and can
get you up and running in minutes.
  4. That's it!  You should now be able to go to where you placed the
files and log in.  If you are unable to log in, check include/settings.inc
again (most importantly 'imap_host' and 'imap_port').
  5. Please go to http://www.kmmail.org/ and fill out the survey.  You
cannot imagine how helpful your comments are.  Also, please be sure to
mention your orginazation's name and URL so you may be listed in the
kmMail users section.


KMMAIL AND POP3

  kmMail is fully compatible with POP3 servers, though IMAP is strongly
recommended as an alternative to POP3 if available.  There are two reasons
for this: speed and folder support.  IMAP includes commands that let you
retrieve just summary data for a folder (for displaying in the mailbox
display), while POP3 must retrieve all the headers of all the messages in
the Inbox.  This delay can be very noticable on larger mailboxes.  Also,
POP3 has no concept of folders, while IMAP can handle folders quite well.
  If you still want to use POP3, change 'imap_host' in
include/settings.inc to 'hostname/pop3' ('/pop3' is case sensitive) and
'imap_port' to 110.  This tells PHP to use POP3 instead of IMAP.  kmMail
is smart enough to recognize if you want to use POP3 and will hide options
having to deal with folders for you.


EMBEDDING KMMAIL

  If you look at the .php files, you will notice that there is not much
PHP code, mostly custom function calls.  This is intentional.  Most of the
functionality is in the .inc files in the include/ directory.  This makes
it much easier if you want to embed kmMail into your groupware or other
project.  kmMail is under a BSD license, so there are almost no
restrictions on its use.  However, if you do use kmMail, please be kind
and mention it somewhere in your documentation.  kmMail is the result of
dozens of developers and about 2 years of work (see History below).


BUGS/ISSUES

  See http://bugs.kmmail.org/ for a current bug list.


LATEST VERSION

  The latest version is always available at http://www.kmmail.org/.


HISTORY

  Kefta, Inc (http://www.kefta.com/) was founded in early 2000 as a
referral marketing company.  Its first most visible was Keftamail
(http://www.keftamail.com/), a free email program that rewarded you for
sending targeted advertising to your friends.  Basically, every time you
sent an email, you had the option of attaching one of a couple dozen
banner ads to the bottom of the message.  If the recipient clicked on the
ad and performed a specific action (purchasing a product, signing up for a
newsletter, etc), the sender received points that could later be redeemed
for cash and gift certificates.
  While Keftamail was being developed, it was clear that it was becoming
much more than a simple email client with referral marketing aspects tied
into it.  It was actually becoming so easy to use that some employees were
using it for their primary email.  This was primarily because of the skill
of the developers, some of whom have been in the PHP community for years.
  Keftamail launched in the fall of 2000, and was a success, with
thousands of subscribers actively using it.  Click-thru and action rates
were some of the highest in the industry, showing that referral marketing
does work.  Nonetheless, Kefta went on to other things, mainly
private-label ASP-style projects.  Keftamail was starting to loose the
spotlight.
  In the spring of 2001, I (Ryan Finnie) asked the CTO about spinning off
the core mail functionality of Keftamail into its own open-source project.  
Kefta has always been supportive of the open-source community (most of the
software run both in development and production environments is open
source), and the project was approved.  On April 1, 2001, kmMail 1.0pre1
was released.
  I still work at Kefta, and continue to develop kmMail in my own time.  
However, kmMail contributions have come from developers both in and out of
Kefta.

@(#) $Id: README,v 1.3 2001/09/27 01:48:42 ryanf Exp $
